hey
hi everyone welcome to a coffee break
with pam
um it's so wonderful to be here i
haven't done it actually for a couple
weeks because i was incredibly busy with
the client project so i'm so sorry
and like i said i usually answer one
question related to um the marketing
today i want to answer an important
question related to the creation of a
marketing plan or any plan for that
matter
and the question is how should you go
about collecting data for a data driven
b2b marketing plan yes the question is
pretty lengthy huh
how do you go about collecting data for
data driven
marketing plan
after these short videos you'll
understand the following concept number
one
what data driven marketing means
number two how to go about gathering
your data
number three how to correlate or analyze
right
and this topic came when um i recently
had a conversation with jana driscoll
miller about her book
data first marketing we talked about how
data first is different from database
and how to plan the process to track
data during marketing campaigns and more
so
if you are a podcast fan
check out episode 212 from b2b marketing
and more with pam dinner on your
favorite
podcast platform by the way my coffee
break is syndicated live to linkedin
facebook youtube and twitter
if you miss any of live streams no
worries you can always go back and check
out my archive of recorded video on my
youtube channel just enter pam dinner
if you like the way i explain things
please give the video a thumbs up please
subscribe my channel and comment below i
love love love to hear from you
so now that's back to question number
one
what does data-driven marketing mean
it's very simple
right
the goal of data driven marketing is put
data first before you plan your
marketing outreach
we b2b marketers tend to focus on
campaign ideas creative copy and
storytelling and those are important
don't take me wrong and we tend to do
that first
and then for example if we want to do
email campaigns you should talk to any
marketers we'll start thinking about oh
what do we want to say oh where should
we collect the the
content oh what does the email
need to look like
we don't necessarily put data front and
center when we start talking about any
kind of marketing plans or campaigns
therefore we might you know what we
might set up a goals and success metrics
in advance but we went here so much
later to start talking about how to
gather and collect analytics to showcase
the actual results
i myself is the guilty one i do that all
the time so when i'm working with the
clients on any kind of domain giant or
any kind of campaigns or even marketing
plans i always start thinking about okay
what should the data what should the
flow of the presentation look like what
should the campaigns look like what kind
of content should i use and then later
on i was like oh
by the way we need to measure our
success
so the logic behind data driven
marketing is to make sure you align the
process
tracking the end goal
at the same time
i really mean it at the same time as you
start creating your campaign plans
that's it that's what database marketing
plan is think about your data first
before you do your campaigns and the
marketing efforts
okay
like i said content and the creative
concepts are very important but data
collection and
analytics are equally important
especially
in the world of digital so it's time to
shift
your mentality
all right don't put data
like later when you are thinking about
your campaigns thinking about your plans
think about data at the same time
next one all right now you are thinking
about data okay but how should you go
about gathering data for your plant
well there are two ways to go about
doing data gathering from my perspective
number one
if you know what you want to say and
what issues you want to address as a
part of your plan yay
you can gather data based on what you
want to communicate because you already
have a very solid ideas what you want to
say anyway right so then convert that
into a list of questions and then use
that as the baseline to go out and
search for the data to substantiate the
points that you want to make
what if you don't know what you want to
say if that's the case you need to start
gathering data internally
and
externally and then you have to study
the data you gather
hopefully by doing so
you will understand the native land and
also have a point of view in terms of
what you want to communicate and share
in terms of your recommendations
with that being said what kind of data
do you need to look for internally and
externally
well here are some examples of internal
data gathering to help your marketing
plan number one
very important you always need to know
your company's goals and the business
objectives what is the revenue goal and
what's the business goal that you want
to accomplish
right you need to understand that and
you need to articulate that
the next level is if you are creating
you know a marketing plan just for your
division but you are part of the bigger
marketing organizations well what is the
organizational why marketing objectives
if there's any right make sure that you
align with that as well
another thing that you can gather is in
many companies they also have a primary
marketing research
data and report that conducted by your
product team or your marketing research
teams
and some of them probably have done the
messaging testing or personal research
go find that as well right study that
in addition any kind of past campaign
results that you can use
that would be great too understand what
are some of the data and also the
performance of the marketing outreach
that will give you idea
ideas in terms of what you need to do
next as a part of your plan
recommendation
in terms of internal data gathering
there's another part or another piece i
think is very critical is interviewing
your stakeholders you need to talk to
your stakeholders and management
understand your concerns and
expectations
in addition to sharing your marketing
recommendation a big part of b2b
marketing plan is to address
stakeholders concerns and expectations
and speaking of stakeholders concerns
and expectations
several weeks ago i did um a tip and
tricks of how to interview your
stakeholders
and so check out the a video
i think the title is the important tips
and tricks to interview your
stakeholders you should be able to see
kind of like a youtube video
on my screen
and uh so check that out if you are not
if you are not sure how to interview and
also talk to your internal stakeholders
alright
so like i said there are many data you
can gather internally the most important
thing is actually talk to your
stakeholders understand their needs
their gaps and also expectations and you
need to address some of those concerns
as a part of your plan
what about external data well here are
some examples technology and trend
reports competitive analysis
industry case studies or best practices
are good examples that you can gather as
a part of external
third-party data
in general
talking to your customers and also the
expectation
understand existing gaps
as well as studying the trends and the
past results will give you some ideas
how you want to lay out your marketing
plan right so gathering data is one way
to understand okay what actually did
well and also you look at the past you
also with the future trends you also
look at the future and with that
information that will give you some
ideas in terms of what you want to
communicate as a part of your plan
once you have some ideas in terms of the
recommendations and also the gaps you
want to address
then you kind of know what kind of data
that you need to use to substantiate
your recommendation
i always tell my clients think of your
plan like answer like answering a list
of questions that your stakeholders
have but you have to do it in a very
logical and coherent way right so don't
create your marketing plan like i'm
answering the questions but create it in
a way that it flows in a very coherent
way that you are as if you are telling a
story one after another okay
the next question is how can you analyze
and correlate the data all right this
question is tough to answer
right it's very hard to answer it really
depends on what data you gather but the
key
the key
is not to look at the data points
separately in silos let me give you one
example say your website traffic
increased by 100
yet the contact sales request on the
website actually went down
but you want to find out why why
you may need to look at you know the
number of the blog
post produced or even content pieces
that has been created during that time
maybe that you pushed out more content
maybe you actually increase the
frequency of your outreach or your
social media posts maybe there was a big
event
that happened during that time and a
bunch of sales people actually attended
the event and gathering a lot of uh
leads and there was a post email that
has been a post event email that has
been sent out that kind of increased the
traffic but nobody actually uh take the
bite in terms of contacting sales so you
need to actually go look at the data not
just the website traffic you also need
to separately gather data from different
places to understand why the website
traffic actually um went up so don't
look at just one data point and look at
the multiple data points to together
collectively to determine and have
assessments and the point of view in
terms of why
right the data really doesn't you know
uh chive
so
that's the thing i'm talking about in
terms of hey
when you are looking at the data and
look at the data in a very collective
manner
and um in a way it's more kind of like
you are you need to study
the data that you gather
is that helpful
and studying the data you gather is just
as time consuming as gathering it and i
always tell my clients allow 20 to 50
hours depending on the the data that you
gather over time to really analyze and
internalize the information that you
gather
data driven marketing allows you to
gather and analyze data and create a
plan that is sensible and uh supported
by data point
of course i'm not saying that ignore
your gut field gut feelings still count
but you still need to find a logical way
to explain why your team and the
management should go with your gut
you still need to find data to support
that to some extent
so always possible with data driven
marketing
all right
and when you create your marketing plan
remember data is your bff
i hope you enjoyed today's coffee break
if you like it don't forget to
press the like button comment and
subscribe and join me next time for a
brand new topic oh by the way
if you have any questions that you want
me to answer send it to me as well i'm
more than happy to take care of you
take care
bye